+++
title = "Dev Log - 0002"
date = 2023-05-01
draft = false
[taxonomies]
tags=["logs", "programming", "graphics"]
[extra]
toc=true
+++

# Graphics Programming with `wgpu`

This week started with kind of rushing through the book that teaches `wgpu`. I
tried to adapt the code so that it is less repetitive as an exercise and I also
incorporated `async-winit` which was useable after all my doubts from last
week. I even skipped some of the chapters on lighting and mesh generation which
were not that interesting to me since I really wanted to read about instancing.
The principle there is much easier than I could have imagined:

In the example from the book a uniform buffer is created which holds the data
which is different between instances of the same object. In the draw command we
can pass an instance range which is directly passed to the shader as a raw
instance index. We can then use this instance index to get the correct portion
of the uniform buffer that is related to the instance by, ... well: indexing
into the uniform buffer. And that's pretty much it.

I pretty much stopped reading the book from there on for the rest of the week
and I'm just now picking it up again. It's a bit hard to continue since the
author is presenting big, repetitive examples and he's switching up a few
things back and forth between the chapters. This was a bit annoying to me since
I thought I might get away with progressively updating my adaptations of the
code. However, this is not the case. There is code from an earlier chapter
popping up just now and so I'm refactoring the `wgpu` executing code to be able
to run all variations of the examples. That works reasonably well and is a
pretty cool exercise actually.

# Terrain generation progress

My private side project I wrote about last week is a small experiment for
terrain generation that looks like a game/simulation. Currently it's just a way
for me to spend a bit more time doing something creative. This week I mainly
drew some trees in libresprite and tried to work on vegetation. It's nothing
sophisticated yet, but it starts to look more natural. I'll try to post some
pictures once I'm satisfied enough with the results.

# `zsh` and nix

I finally gave configuring `zsh` in nix a second try this week aswell as my
previous configuration was a bit bare-bones. As a result the most basic things
every normal linux user would expect are working now. I finally have proper
syntax highlighting and auto completion. Another thing that got improved in
that process is the `zsh` and `nix-shell` compatibility. Since I'm using a lot
of nix shells (I can probably replace that with flakes but haven't figured out
how to do so yet) I'm like half of my time inside of a nix shell. I didn't
configure `nix-shell` in any way and so I was left with a minimalistic `bash`
experience. Integrating `zsh` there wasn't to difficult however and now I'm
enjoying `zsh` on my system again like in the good old arch linux times.
